Video games
—they can be a lot of fun
and can seem like a great way to pass time.
But like most forms of fun,
playing video games can take over your life
in ways you don’t want.
For example, at Ephesians 5:15, 16,
the Bible says
to ‘make the best use of your time.’
So if you’re up when you should be sleeping,
then who’s in control?
You or the game?
That doesn’t make you a winner.
Think about it:
If you lose money,
you may be able to get it back,
but that’s not true when you lose time.
In a sense, then,
time is more valuable than money.
So don’t let yourself be robbed.
Do you find yourself skipping meals,
not doing homework,
and generally not taking care of yourself
in order to get through endless levels
in your game?
How can you stop losing out
on those important parts of life?
Is your gaming console in your bedroom?
Move it out so that you can get some sleep.
At times, it might be good to take a break.
Why not stop playing for a week?
Replace gaming with something active
—you know, actual exercise.
Come to think of it,
you might want to do some of that every day.
At Ecclesiastes 3:4, the Bible says
that there’s “a time to laugh”
and “a time to dance.”
So it’s OK to spend
some time playing video games,
just not all the time.
There’s something else
video games can rob you of:
your sense of right and wrong.
The Bible says that God
hates anyone ‘loving violence.’
The fact is, video games promote
lots of things the Bible condemns
—violence,
immoral sex,
and spiritism.
Is it just a game?
Imagine you were doing that in real life
—you know,
all that stuff in the game you’re playing.
What kind of person would you be?
Your choice in video games
may say a lot about who you are
and what you think is right and wrong.
What about online games
that connect you with other players?
Do you know who’s on the other end?
Your game could be putting you
with the wrong people.
It’s definitely worth taking
a look at your gaming habits.
The bottom line?
Playing video games can be good recreation.
But don’t let games rob you of your time
or your sense of right and wrong.
Instead of trying hard
to be a winner in a game,
use your time and energy
to be a winner in real life.